Workload ID: Configuring AWS Roles Anywhere guide (#41649)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/workload-identity/aws-roles-anywhere.mdx

---
title: Configuring Workload ID and AWS Roles Anywhere
description: Configuring AWS to accept Workload ID certificates as authentication using AWS Roles Anywhere
---

> Teleport's Workload Identity issues flexible short-lived identities in X.509

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport Workload Identity issues flexible short-lived identities in X.509
```

Since this doesn't belong to Teleport (i.e., as a possessive) but is a Teleport feature.

certificates. AWS Roles Anywhere allows you to use these certificates to
authenticate to AWS services.

This can be useful in cases where a machine needs to securely authenticate with
AWS services without the use of a long-lived credential. This is because the
machine can authenticate with Teleport without using any shared secrets by
using one of our delegated join methods.

> This implementation differs from Teleport's Application Access for AWS feature

Reviewer: Since "Application Access for AWS" isn't a term we use in the docs, I would use more general language, e.g., "This implementation differs from using the Teleport Application Service to protect AWS APIs" or something similar.

Author: 818afe8c07

in a few ways:

> - Requests to AWS are not proxied through Teleport, meaning reduced latency but

Reviewer: If we're talking about network traffic, we should refer to specific Teleport components instead of "Teleport". This makes it clearer how the feature interacts with cloud-managed Teleport accounts, high availability, etc.

Author: e63011e212

  also less visibility, as these requests will not be recorded in Teleport's
  audit log.

> - Workload ID works with any AWS client, including the commandline tool but also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Workload ID works with any AWS client, including the command-line tool but also
```

  their SDKs
- Teleport Application Access for AWS does not work with Machine ID and
  therefore cannot be used when a machine needs to authenticate with AWS.

Whilst this guide is primarily aimed at allowing a machine to access AWS,
the `tsh svid issue` command can be used in place of Machine ID to allow a human
user to authenticate with using AWS Roles Anywhere.

> 

Reviewer: We can turn the text between "This implementation differs" and the "Prerequisites" heading into the "How it works" H2.

Author: 5a907bba55

- `tbot` must already be installed and configured on the host where the
workloads which need to access Teleport Workload Identity will run. For more
information, see the [deployment guides](../deployment.mdx).

## Step 1/5. Decide on a SPIFFE ID structure

Within Teleport Workload Identity, all identities are represented using a
SPIFFE ID. This is a URI that uniquely identifies the entity that the identity
represents. The scheme is always `spiffe://`, and the host will be the name of
your Teleport cluster. The structure of the path of this URI is up to you.

For the purposes of this guide, we will be granting access to AWS to the
`spiffe://example.teleport.sh/svc/example-service` SPIFFE ID.

If you have already deployed Teleport Workload Identity, then you will already
have a SPIFFE ID structure in place. If you have not, then you will need to
decide on a structure for your SPIFFE IDs.

If you are only using Teleport Workload ID with AWS Roles Anywhere, you way
structure your SPIFFE IDs so that they explicitly specify the AWS role they are
allowed to assume. However, it often makes more sense to name the workload or
person that will use the SPIFFE ID. See the

> [best practices guide](./best-practices.mdx) for further advice.

Reviewer: Since a user needs to leave the guide and do some planning, I would recommend making Step 1 part of the Prerequisites, i.e., we'd require reading the best practices guide and determining a SPIFFE ID structure before following this guide.

Author: 67680590c3

---
title: Configuring Workload ID and AWS Roles Anywhere
description: Configuring AWS to accept Workload ID certificates as authentication using AWS Roles Anywhere
---

Teleport Workload Identity issues flexible short-lived identities in X.509
certificates. AWS Roles Anywhere allows you to use these certificates to
authenticate to AWS services.

This can be useful in cases where a machine needs to securely authenticate with
AWS services without the use of a long-lived credential. This is because the
machine can authenticate with Teleport without using any shared secrets by
using one of our delegated join methods.

## How it works

> This implementation differs from using Teleport's Application Access to protect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implementation differs from using the Teleport Application Service to protect
```
To be consistent with the rest of the docs.

AWS APIs in a few ways:

- Requests to AWS are not proxied through the Teleport Proxy Service, meaning
  reduced latency but also less visibility, as these requests will not be
  recorded in Teleport's audit log.
- Workload ID works with any AWS client, including the command-line tool but also
  their SDKs

> - Using Teleport Application Access to access AWS does not work with Machine ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using the Teleport Application Service to access AWS does not work with Machine ID
```
